---
tags: [blog, personal, academia]
---

A bunch of years ago I used to write a very different kind of blog. It was much more political, and I used it as a way to organize some loose ideas that I had kicking around in my brain. I was resolved from the beginning that the blog was there to serve *me*, and that when it stopped being rewarding I would walk away from it. Which happened one day, rather abruptly.

This blog will not contain much by the way of political musings. My politics don't have much to do with my work, except insofar as I was drawn to health economics because of my belief that health care should be provided on the basis of *need* not *ability to pay*, and that principles of justice demand that we must address that need equitably. Health economics addresses the long-term viability of the system yes, but it also speaks clearly to how resources ought to be allocated. While I do have opinions about my personal "ought" feelings, I will mostly keep them off this site.

What this blog *will* reflect, though, is a very different outcropping of my set of personal beliefs and a desire to organize some different thoughts. I often find writing code to be a very frustrating and disempowering experience. It's sifting through StackOverflow pages to try and snatch a bit of syntax, and everything is written for people who know the difference between a vector and a tibble. They didn't cover that in any of my epi classes. As a result, I spend a ton of time on trying to get a set of numbers to interact with a different set of numbers and trying to decipher error messages.

I've spent a fair amount of time on that, and I've had to solve some problems that I imagine other people have struggled with as well, or will in the future. Right now there is a movement around the world to move more people into writing code, and I know that there are better ways to proceed than to white-knuckle your way through every step of the process. I figure that some of the tricks I've developed could make the transition easier for people trying to do this work.

But while that all sounds nice and friendly and altruistic, I do have an ulterior motive. Because I've figured out a lot of this stuff on my own, much of what I write won't necessarily be the best way to approach the problem. I've tried to be really up-front about the fact that I am self-taught on R, and that means most of what I post on here is going to use approaches that aren't "standard". The standard approaches are often the ones that make the most sense, but because I don't have a background in this I don't have a great grasp on what is the most sensible.

So with all that being said, there are really two audiences for this blog that I'm hoping to engage with:

1. Health economists who are R novices and who are looking for some specific tools to help them get started; and
2. Experienced hands in R who can point out ways that these tools can be improved

So I'd love to know: what brings you to this site? How long have you been interested in health economics? Are you an R veteran, or just getting started, or something in between? 
